It is possible that "Birdemic: Shock and Terror" is one of the worst films ever made ... and that is precisely why it will not be forgotten.
A shot-on-video reworking of The Birds as a screwy commentary on the dangers of global warming, Birdemic: Shock and Terror pours every stupid horror movie clich into an abstract road movie ...
so dull, incompetent and ridiculous that it can and will be championed only by a repeat audience of ironists and iconoclasts looking for the next cult film to worship.
Birdemic appears to be completely sincere, an attempt by Nguyen to make a serious and moving work of art. So what if it moves us to tears with laughter?
Most people will be bored witless with this piece of bird dropping.
As a movie on its own, Birdemic is a mind-numbingly tedious experience, and not really deserving of the fervent following it's built up.
Birdemic defies traditional criticism. It's awful, but isn't that the point?
Birdemic, which literally has no ending, is actually two totally different movies, linked mostly by their complete, hilarious crapitude.
Then there's the acting, uniformly delivered with the flatness of someone who's taken a handful of anti-psychotic medication.
Question: What's the difference between "Birdemic" and bird droppings? No one asks you to pay for the latter (yet).
Leading lady Whitney Moore gets no points for charisma, but there's compensation in co-star Alan Bagh, who's like a numb John Krasinski.
It's a shame that Mystery Science Theater 3000 isn't around anymore to provide real context for what is at times a jaw-dropping wonder of clumsiness and banality.
Nguyen's DIY-fingerprints are on every frame. Like The Room, it's the antidote to mass culture -- a singular auteur with a dream.
Howlingly bad films are a dime a dozen, but the evident Ed Wood-like sincerity with which writer-director James Nguyen lovingly crafted this compendium of cinematic don'ts gives it a goofy, almost surrealist charm.
Simply foul.
Bird-brained thriller sets a new standard for zero-budget hilarity.