Digital systems and binary coding; binary numbers; Boolean algebra and computer logic; combinational logic circuits; 
sequential logic circuits; hardware description language; digital design flow; register transfer level descriptions 
and design; data paths and control units; from circuits to microprocessors; basic computer organisation; 
introduction to modern microprocessors; timers and interfacing; C and assembly language for microprocessors; 
designing digital systems using microprocessors.
Introduction to the analytical and empirical behaviour of basic algorithms and data structures.
An introduction to Object Oriented software development. Programming with classes; objects and polymorphism. 
Evolutionary and test-driven development. Analysis and design. Modelling with UML. Design patterns. 
Design for reuse, for testing, and for ease of change.
Project work. Skills and tools in systematic development of software, including testing, version control, build systems, 
working with others.
Sets. Formal languages, operations on languages. Deterministic and nondeterministic automata, designing automata, determinisation. 
Regular expressions. Logic. Induction. Recursion. Program correctness. Computability. Counting. Elements of graph algorithms.
Software verification and validation. Static and dynamic QA activities as part of the software lifecycle. Unit, integration, system, 
and usability testing. Use of visual notations, automation, and tools to support development activities. Metrics to quantify strength 
of testing and complexity of programs.
First and second order ordinary differential equations and solutions. Laplace transforms. Taylor series and series in general. 
Multivariable and vector calculus including divergence, gradient and curl. Further linear algebra. Eigenvalues and eigenvectors. 
Fourier series. Application of the techniques through appropriate modelling examples. Introductory data analysis and statistics.
A system-wide view of the role of the professional engineer in society and business. The skills of advocacy, and individual and 
group-based communication are put into practice. Scenarios representative of real-world issues are addressed through team-based 
projects and problem solving. The professional issues introduced in ENGGEN 115 (health and safety, ethics, sustainability, cultural 
diversity, communication, leadership, and teamwork) are continued and developed.
Introduction to theory and practice of managing projects, innovation, product development and service delivery. Students work in 
interdisciplinary teams to complete a project based on a complex real-world systems scenario. Project management and innovation topics 
are integrated with design studies covered in previous courses, and extended to wider business issues of risk and opportunities, 
entrepreneurship, financial management, and regulatory issues.
Human behaviour and humans’ expectations of computers. Computer interfaces and the interaction between humans and computers. The significance 
of the user interface, interface design and user centred design process in software development. Interface usability evaluation methodologies 
and practice. Includes an evaluation project, group design project, and implementation using current techniques and tools.
Relational model, Relational algebra, Relational calculus, SQL, SQL and programming languages, Entity-Relationship model, Normalisation, Query 
processing, Query optimisation, Distributed databases, Transaction management, Concurrency control, Database recovery.
Working in project teams to develop software to meet changing requirements for a large application. Project Planning. Requirements gathering. 
Estimating, costing and tracking. Acceptance and unit testing. Evolutionary design and development. Collaborative development tools.
Taxonomy of software architecture patterns, including client/server and multi-tier. Understanding quality attributes. Methodologies for design 
of software architectures. Technologies for architecture level development, including middleware.
History of operating systems. Multi-user systems. Scheduling. Concurrent processes, threads and synchronisation. Memory allocation and virtual memory. 
Managing files, disks and other peripherals. Security, protection and archiving. Engineering distributed systems; location, migration and replication 
transparency. Real-time programming and embedded systems.
Students are required to submit a report on project work carried out on a Software Engineering topic assigned by the Head of Department.
An introduction to the commercial drivers and business practices which prepare students for successful roles in the commercial, government, and non-profit 
sectors after graduation. Students are presented with a systems thinking approach to managing large, complex, multidisciplinary challenges. Professional 
issues (such as health and safety, sustainability, resilience, ethics, leadership, and cultural diversity) from previous courses are expanded.





